# The Impact of Airline Loyalty Program on Flight Activity & Memberships
The competition between different airlines within the dynamic-natured airline industry is very intense. One of the ways for an airline brand to gain the upper hand over its fierce competitors revolves around customer loyalty programs, also specifically known as frequent flyer programs. Recognizing the evolving preference and need of flyers for a more personalised and cost-effective travel experience, airline companies must win the brand loyalty of flyers as the commodity prize so that the values derived from the flyers can be brought back to the airline companies aside from giving the best services to them, which ultimately striking a balance between these two efforts in maximizing the profitability of the airline brands. Frequent flyer programs typically provide airline companies with a marketing edge by implementing policies related to the providence of different incentives and privileges to frequent airline passengers depending on membership tiers so that they feel more satisfied and retain their status in the loyalty program, thus increasing the likelihood of staying loyal to the airline brand in terms of focused expenditure. To do this, they often need to accumulate points through different provided means such as accumulation of flight distance and number of flight reservations and redeem them to obtain point-corresponding prizes like discount fares, premium lounge access and other exclusive promotions. In this way, the airline companies can derive insights from the flight and membership activities of frequent flyers in different aspects such as their demographic information in addition to flight distance and destination as travel preference indicators, and ultimately formulating different personalised benefits that suit their preference to enhance their airline membership experience, which gains their trust for the exceptional service deliveries. Similarly, airline companies can gain economic benefits from them in return as the number of flight seat bookings hikes up. 

Thus, this report aims to investigate and analyse the relationship between the implementation of airline loyalty campaigns and flight activities and membership history. First, related works are outlined. Two datasets containing data about the flight activities and membership history of Canadian flyers for one Canada-based airline are then pre-processed to manage the noisy data before proceeding to the exploratory data analysis (EDA) stage where trends and patterns of data are extensively explored through graphical visualisations and statistical analysis. Then, feature engineering techniques like imputation, outlier removal, log transformation, one hot encoding and standardisation are applied to the data. Finally, five hypotheses are proposed based on the analysis of the cleaned dataset followed by discussions of the findings.
